# Chamilo 1.11.x tests directory

This directory is used for all kinds of tests and scripts and is removed from
public releases as it may represent a risk for production systems.

## Behat integration testing

The current automated tests are developed using Behat. To run them, you will
need a basic default installation of the corresponding version of Chamilo LMS,
which should include the vendor/behat/behat/bin/behat executable.

Make sure you set the right base_url in behat.yml, then run (on the command
line, from the tests/ directory): 
```
../vendor/behat/behat/bin/behat -v
```

This should run all tests and all of them should pass.

## Folders

Although many scripts here are deprecated, the current structure can be
 described as follows;

The scripts available at the root are mostly deprecated.
behat.yml (see Behat section) serves as the configuration for the Behat
test suite.

### api folder

Folder meant as the destination for documentation automatically generated by
running PHPDoc. It only contains a README file by default.

### datafiller

Set of scripts to fill your test installation of Chamilo with demo content.

### features

Behat-specific folder

### history

Attempt at keeping a track of what Chamilo looked like over time.

### logs

Meant as a destination for all logs generated by automated testing and building
scripts. Should be writeable whenever tests (other than behat) are run (clover
and stuff like that). Initially used when Chamilo was using its own Jenkins
setup (now it tries to use Travis-CI).

### main

Deprecated PHPUnit code reflecting the internal code structure of Chamilo

### migrations

Combination of unofficial scripts to execute migrations from other systems

### phpunit

Deprecated PHPUnit code

### procedures

xls spreadsheets to be used as base for manual quality review of features in
Chamilo.

### scripts

A collection of scripts used to fix or improve some things globally in Chamilo
portals. Mostly for old versions.

### simpletest

Deprecated SimpleTest code (unused since 2009)

### translations

Scripts to help with the move from Chamilo-format translations to PO (gettext)

### video

Scripts to handle mass operations on video files.

### xhprof

Scripts to enable the use of the XHprof profiler (with these, you only need a
small change to your PHP config to enable profiling each Chamilo page).
